Rammeverk strukturert
Scope

Limitations
The framework does not include criteria for implementation of functionalities and will not make use of methods that require specialized knowledge such as code-reviewing and vulnerability-hunting/ research.
The main focus of the framework are for devices that primarily use Wifi as a method of communication, thus other protocols such as Zigbee and Z-wave have been left out of the scope.


Få inn: wrongfully use of data
No confirmation given

In these consequence values, do we define security of the user as, 
The security of personal data that the controller has, what it is being used for, by whom, and for what purposes. The user should have a clear understanding of these points.  The device/controller will be seen as unsafe to use, if the user doesn't understand these points.  The user should be able to consent and withdraw their consent easely, they also have to understand what they consent to.
The user's security also entails how safe the device is from outside interference, how vulnerable is the device for man-in-the-middle attacks, or other?  

1: 
- The consequence will have little to no impact on the security of the user. It is not required for the device to make use of the criteria, and the device will not be considered unsafe for use. The user's rights to privacy will not be affected if the criteria is not implemented.
2: 
- The consequence will have some impact to the security of the user and the users rights to privacy may be affected if the criteria is not implemented. It is recommended but not required for the device to make use of the criteria.
3: 
- The consequences of deviation from the criterias are moderate. No implementation of the criteria could open the device up for potential attacks and loss of confidentiality and integrity. Consequence does not affect personal-data but could affect other types of data such as metrics.
- The criteria makes a user friendly environment, where, if not fulfilled, can lead to confusion between customer and the company.
4: 
- Bad consequences, The criteria is important for the device, but not critical. No implementation of the criteria could open up the device for potential attacks, loss of confidentiality and integrity.
- A consequences of this would be personal data going astray
- The criteria gives the user a friendly environment, where, if not fulfilled, can lead to confusion between customer and the company on security-related situations.
5: 
- Critical consequences, this aspect of the device is considered unsafe if not implemented. The criteria is critical for the use, and security of the device and can not be in use before the criteria is used. No implementation could lead to all data going astray.
- The criteria gives the user a friendly environment, where, if not fulfilled, can lead to confusion between customer and the company on security-related situations with personal data.



Value of implementation

- The values of implementation indicate how the criteria has actually been taken into consideration and implemented into the product. This value will be used with the value of consequence to indicate how vulnerable the criteria is.

0:
- Criteria has been taken into consideration and implemented with no indication that it does not follow best practice or with flaws.
1:
- Criteria has been implemented with flaws. Feature is not complete and is missing a core functionality or does not follow best practice.
2:
- Criteria has not been taken into consideration and is missing this feature or has been implemented badly to an extent that it does not fulfill its function.




The closer the number gets to 0, the better the score is.
Forslag til oppsett:
a. Registration
i. User setup
b. Security
i. Authentication
ii. Communication
iii. Disclose vulnerabilities
c. User choice
i. Default
ii. Erasure
iii. Personal data
iv. Communication/ Response(Bedriftens oppførsel/Response til bruker)
- Må finne punkter
d. Interfaces
i. Firmware/Updates
ii. Physical
e. Tests that require specialized knowledge or tools
f. New points/criterias without a specified location?


Part:RequirementMethod for evaluationValue of consequenceValue of implementationA1The process is based on consent(GDPR 7)5
G0A1The user is informed what the consent means for user setup, and what they accept5G0A1The default value for a decision follows best practice for security(ETSI 5.12)2B0A1Decisions taken by the user is understandable for users with limited technological knowledge(ETSI 5.12)3B0A1Every decision taken by the user (prominently requested during setup) is necessary regarding the use of the device (ETSI 5.12)Setting up a user1
S0A1Security-relevant user decision is covered by the documentation and a recommendation is given (ETSI 5.12)Read through the documentation and webpage2S1A1There is no indication that data input does not protect against processing of unexpected data input.(ETSI 5.13)Try wrong data input4S0A1Easy to read user manual and models designation shall be easy to find by several different methods, like on app, in the box and on website (ETSI 5.3)Look for user manual, and see that it’s correct2S0B1There is no indication that user input fields are vulnerable for injection-attacks and only users with right credentials are given proper access(ETSI 5.5)Try wrong log in input
The sql-injection
5S0B1Login mechanism protects against brute-force by:
- Time-delay between failed attempts, or;
- Limited number of failed attempts, or;
- Required two factor authentication
(ETSI 5.1)Try multiple failed attempts5S0B1Process for changing passwords is described in privacy policy/user agreement and easy to follow. The password is actually changed.
(ETSI 5.1)Try and change password/or read in privacy policy/user agreement on how to change5S0B1User must be authenticated towards the device to have access to its functionalities and interfaces
(ETSI 5.5)There is no access to application/network interface without authentication5S0B1Passwords is recommended to be at least 8 characters and consist of at least of from each character group (Big letter, small letter, numbers, and special characters)
(ETSI 5.4)See what passwords the device/application allows5S1B1Administrator gets notifies about new/unauthorized changes in device software (ETSI 5.7)4S0B2Communication of personal and sensitive data uses best practice cryptographics(ETSI 5.8)5B0
TCLB2All cryptographics details are configured appropriately, is not known to be vulnerable and considered best practice
(ETSI 5.1, 5.5, 5.8)Observe traffic from the device to see if the data is encrypted and how its encrypted5BB2The DUT can be isolated(ETSI 5.3)Removed from network should only mean that the DUT lose network functionalities3S0B2The level of security and mechanism used is appropriate for the use case of secure communication (ETSI 5.5)Depending on the use case of the device and the data that is transmitted from it4BB3The vulnerability disclosure policy of the company/organization is available for anybody/user, and contains contact information(ETSI 5.2)5S00B3The company/organization is also required to  act upon vulnerabilities sent to the user contact in a timely manner (60-120 days)
(ETSI 5.2)5S–
TidC1Default password is uniquely per device (ETSI 5.1)5S0C1Default password does not make use of common patterns or common string and is not related to public information
(ETSI 5.1)4S0C2User have right to require erasure of their personal data (GDPR 17)5GokC2When a user request erasure of their data, third parties of the company that have the data, will also erase the data
(GDPR 17, ETSI 5.11)5G—
tidC2A clear confirmation is provided after deletions (ETSI 5.11)4G—
tid
C2User can make use of a simple functionality to erase their user data (5.11)4G0C2Nothing indicates that the user data is not erased after requested(ETSI 5.11)4G—
tidC2Privacy policy or user agreement covers how to erase, or delete personal data(ETSI 5.11)3G0C3The user is able to edit and complete wrong and uncomplete data without undue delay
(GDPR 16)3G0C3All decisions about the user’s personal data are based on consent(GDPR 7)5G0C3Users are able to withdraw their consent to use of personal data and the processing of personal data at any time. And the process to withdraw is easy to find and understand
(GDPR 7)(ETSI 5.14)5G
0C3User have to be informed that any already processed/used personal data is still lawful, at the time withdrawal of consent is given (GDPR 7)5G—C3The user has access to an easy to understand description about how, why,  and by whom, the personal data is used. As well as all processes their personal data may be used for(ETSI 5.14)Read through provided documents4G0C3The user is informed about how to express consent(Opt-in choice) to the different processes their personal data may be part of(ETSI 5.14)3G0C3The user shall be provided with all the data the controller/company has of the user, and it should be within one month from the receipt (GDPR 12)5G0C3The users shall be informed if data is transferred to a third country or an international organization. (GDPR 15)4G0C3
(ny)Data collected is kept within the EU in countries that follow GDPR.3C4 (Ny)Communication with the company is adequate for the request that is made.
A confirmation of receival of a request is given within a week.5GC4
(Ny)Privacy policy, user agreement and other relevant documentation is easy to find and contains all relevant information to the user. 5G0D1Support period of the device is public available and at least five year with updates after sale2S–D1The device look for updates and initiate updates when first enabled if there is a new update (5.3)4Sok D1Software updates are automatically and periodically checked and initiated. The user is able to manually check and install updates.
(ETSI 5.3)4S–D1The user is notified about security-updates
(ETSI 5.3)2S–
tidD1The user is able to check the software version for the device
(ETSI 5.3)2S0D1Everything enabled by default is necessary for the DUT (ETSI 5.6)Check for open ports and their functionalities4S0D1Every debug interface enabled is required, and can be disabled (ETSI 5.6)4S0D2Device is made by adequate physical material for its use case (Enisa)1S0D2All exposed interfaces (Physical) are covered, protected or enabled as required, and accessible physical debug interfaces are disabled(ETSI 5.6)Check physical interfaces3S0EIf the purpose for processing personal data is no longer valid, the controller shall stop processing of the data (GDPR 7)3G-tidEAll measurements and data of that type is processing the way the documentation describes (ETSI 5.14)4G-tidESoftware security is appropriate for the task in regards to cryptography (ETSI 5.3)See if encryption method is secure secure enough for its purpose3S-tidEUpdate mechanism can not be misused (ETSI 5.3)See if a miscontroller or other parts can’t be changed to install old/other software updates
(MITM?)4S-Tool/tidEThe update mechanism is effective at verifying the authenticity of an update(ETSI 5.3)See if a miscontroller or other parts can’t be changed to install old/other software updates
(MITM?)4S-E
(B1)Passwords are stored according to the minimum required security practice. Scan the device for security parameters and observe how they are stored and if they are stored securely.5S-TilgjengelighetE
(C1)Hardcoded values are documented as such and are protected by suitable mechanisms, including tamper-resistance(ETSI 5.4)3Sok
Grønn:



